=============================
Netconf-connector utilization
=============================

Once the connector is up and running, users can utilize the new mount
point instance. By using RESTCONF or from their application code. This
chapter deals with using RESTCONF and more information for app
developers can be found in the developers guide or in the official
tutorial application **ncmount** that can be found in the coretutorials
project:

-  https://github.com/opendaylight/coretutorials/tree/master/ncmount

Reading data from the device
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Just invoke (no body needed):

GET
http://localhost:8080/restconf/operational/network-topology:network-topology/topology/topology-netconf/node/new-netconf-device/yang-ext:mount/

This will return the entire content of operation datastore from the
device. To view just the configuration datastore, change **operational**
in this URL to **config**.

Writing configuration data to the device
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In general, you cannot simply write any data you want to the device. The
data have to conform to the YANG models implemented by the device. In
this example we are adding a new interface-configuration to the mounted
device (assuming the device supports Cisco-IOS-XR-ifmgr-cfg YANG model).
In fact this request comes from the tutorial dedicated to the
**ncmount** tutorial app.

POST
http://localhost:8181/restconf/config/network-topology:network-topology/topology/topology-netconf/node/new-netconf-device/yang-ext:mount/Cisco-IOS-XR-ifmgr-cfg:interface-configurations

::

    <interface-configuration xmlns="http://cisco.com/ns/yang/Cisco-IOS-XR-ifmgr-cfg">
        <active>act</active>
        <interface-name>mpls</interface-name>
        <description>Interface description</description>
        <bandwidth>32</bandwidth>
        <link-status></link-status>
    </interface-configuration>

Should return 200 response code with no body.

.. tip::

    This call is transformed into a couple of NETCONF RPCs. Resulting
    NETCONF RPCs that go directly to the device can be found in the
    OpenDaylight logs after invoking ``log:set TRACE
    org.opendaylight.controller.sal.connect.netconf`` in the Karaf
    shell. Seeing the NETCONF RPCs might help with debugging.

This request is very similar to the one where we spawned a new netconf
device. Thatâ€™s because we used the loopback netconf-connector to write
configuration data into config-subsystem datastore and config-subsystem
picked it up from there.

Invoking custom RPC
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Devices can implement any additional RPC and as long as it provides YANG
models for it, it can be invoked from OpenDaylight. Following example
shows how to invoke the get-schema RPC (get-schema is quite common among
netconf devices). Invoke:

POST
http://localhost:8181/restconf/operations/network-topology:network-topology/topology/topology-netconf/node/new-netconf-device/yang-ext:mount/ietf-netconf-monitoring:get-schema

::

    <input xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf-monitoring">
      <identifier>ietf-yang-types</identifier>
      <version>2013-07-15</version>
    </input>

This call should fetch the source for ietf-yang-types YANG model from
the mounted device.
